.TH AWS-PATCH 1 "2026-07-07" "aws-patch" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aws-patch \- production-grade Linux patch automation for AWS EC2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aws-patch
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aws-patch
detects the host's operating system and package manager, applies
package updates safely, reports whether a reboot is required (both for
what's already installed and, where supported, what's available in the
repo but not yet installed), and never modifies the bootloader or
removes an installed kernel.
.PP
Supported distributions: Ubuntu 20.04/22.04/24.04, Debian 11/12, Amazon
Linux 2, Amazon Linux 2023, RHEL 7/8/9, Rocky Linux, AlmaLinux, and
CentOS 7. The package manager (apt, yum, or dnf) is auto-detected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-check
Report system, kernel, and patch status only. Installs nothing. Does
not require root.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be done without making any changes. Requires root.
.TP
.B \-\-reboot
Automatically reboot if a reboot is required after patching. Without
this flag, a required reboot is only reported, never performed
automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Assume "yes" for any interactive prompts, for non-interactive /
automation use (cron, SSM Run Command, CI pipelines, etc).
.TP
.B \-\-broken\-fix
If a package operation fails after exhausting its normal retries,
automatically run a distro-appropriate repair routine (e.g.
.BR "apt \-\-fix\-broken install" ,
.BR yum\-complete\-transaction ,
dnf cache cleanup) and retry once before giving up.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable debug-level console output.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the installed version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print usage information and exit.
.SH SAFETY GUARANTEES
.B aws-patch
never removes an installed kernel package, never modifies GRUB or any
bootloader configuration, never changes the default boot entry, and
never reboots the system unless
.B \-\-reboot
is explicitly passed or the administrator confirms interactively.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/aws-patch.log
Timestamped log of every run. Falls back to
.I /tmp/aws-patch-<uid>.log
if that path is not writable.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Generic failure (e.g. a package operation failed and could not be
recovered).
.TP
.B 2
Invalid usage or unrecognized argument.
.TP
.B 3
Unsupported operating system or package manager.
.TP
.B 4
A pre-flight check (connectivity or disk space) failed and the
administrator declined to continue.
.TP
.B 77
Not running as root when root is required.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check status only, no changes:
.B sudo aws-patch \-\-check
.TP
Preview what a live run would do:
.B sudo aws-patch \-\-dry\-run
.TP
Unattended patch, leave reboot decision to a human:
.B sudo aws-patch \-\-yes
.TP
Fully unattended patch, including reboot if required:
.B sudo aws-patch \-\-yes \-\-reboot
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation, troubleshooting guide, and AWS recovery guidance are
installed at
.IR /usr/share/doc/aws-patch/ ,
and online at
.UR https://github.com/yousafkhamza/aws-patch
.UE .
.SH AUTHOR
yousafkhamza
.UR https://github.com/yousafkhamza/aws-patch
.UE
.SH LICENSE
MIT
